# Exercise 12
## Threads

Reading: Chapter 9 of *Think OS* and Chapter 12 of *Head First C*.

### counter.c

1) In this directory you should find `counter.c`, a program that runs
multiple threads that increment a counter.  Read through the code and
make sure you understand it.

One of the functions in `counter.c` is `make_thread`, which
creates a new child thread.  One of its parameters, `entry`, is
a pointer to a function, so the syntax is a little complicated:

 ```C
    pthread_t make_thread(void *(*entry)(void *), Shared *shared)
    {
        int ret;
        pthread_t thread;

        ret = pthread_create (&thread, NULL, entry, (void *) shared);
        if (ret != 0) perror_exit ("pthread_create failed");
        return thread;
    }
 ```

If you are not sure about this type declaration, you can use
[cdecl.org](http://cdecl.org) to interpret it.


2) Use the Makefile to compile `counter.c` and run it.  Draw a thread
diagram that shows the interactions of the parent thread and the children.
Is the final value of the counter correct?

parent
   |
   |--------| ----------  | -----------|
   |       thread1      thread2      thread3
   |        |             |             |
   |      printf(count) printf(count) printf(count)
   |        |             |             |
   |       count++      count++        count++
   |        |             |             |
   |      pthread_exit  pthread_exit pthread_exit
 join_thread
   |
   |
  printf(count)

The final value is correct, and it must be correct because we have N times of (share->count++) operation.
This operation is atomic.

3) Increase the number of children, then compile and run the program again.
Do you see evidence that the threads are running concurrently?  Do any
synchronization errors occur?

I increased N to 10 and here is what I get
```
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 0
counter = 1
Final value of counter is 10
```
and we do see an evidence of threads working concurrently from
the result of `printf("counter = %d\n", shared->counter);`
where some threads read the value before any counter++ operation and some threads read it after a counter++ operation.
This is somewhat a synchronization error given that we would want to read the most recently updated value of shared->counter.
In this case we need to make the child_code thread safe by using a locking mechanism.



### counter_array.c

1) In this directory you should find `counter_array.c`, which is similar
to `counter`, but it uses an array to simulate a shared work queue.

The idea is that each element of the array represents a unit of work.
We want to run multiple threads to do the work, but we have to make sure
each unit of work gets done exactly once.

So we use a counter to keep track of the next unallocated unit of
work.  Each thread should check the counter to see which unit to
work on, do the work, and then increment one element of the array
to indicate that the unit is done.

If everything works correctly, each element of the array should be
incremented exactly once.  If there are synchronization errors, some
elements might be 0, or greater than 1.

Again, read through the program to be sure you understand it.

2) Use the Makefile to compile the program and run it.  Do any
syncronization errors occur?

10000
20000
20000
30000
40000
50000
...
...
...
990000
1000000
Child done.
Child done.
Checking...
151960 errors.

Yes there are snychronization errors because 
```
while (1) {
        if (shared->counter >= shared->end) {
            return;
        }
        shared->array[shared->counter]++;
        shared->counter++;

        if (shared->counter % 10000 == 0) {
            printf("%d\n", shared->counter);
        }
    }
```
this above code is not thread-safe. shared->counter++ could run before the previous shared->array[shared->counter]++ runs on another thread.

1) Also in this directory you should fine `mutex.c` and `mutex.h`, which
contain wrappers for the `pthread_mutex_t` structure provided by pthreads,
with a more object-oriented interface.

Make a copy of `counter_array.c` called `counter_array_mutex.c` and
add code that uses a `Mutex` to eliminate the synchronization errors.

Starting child at counter 0
Starting child at counter 0
10000
20000
30000
40000
50000
60000
...
...
...
930000
940000
950000
960000
970000
980000
990000
1000000
Child done.
Child done.
Checking...
0 errors.

Compile, run, and confirm that there are no errors now.

4) Synchronization takes some time.  Comment out the print statements
in `counter_array.c` and `counter_array_mutex.c`, then recompile and time them.

```
    time ./counter_array
    time ./counter_array_mutex
```

Result :
time ./counter_array

real    0m0.048s
user    0m0.058s
sys     0m0.005s

time ./counter_mutex

real    0m3.027s
user    0m0.854s
sys     0m3.428s

How much overhead does the synchronization impose?

It's about three seconds difference for two threads!
