# Exercise 9

Reading: Chapter 9 of *Head First C*.

On 398, I think the book confuses two very different things:

1) A system call, which is similar to a function call, but an
application causes an exception in order to jump into kernel code.  An
interrupt handler executes code (in kernel mode) on behalf of the
process, then jumps back into the application code.

2) The C library function `system()` spawns a child process and uses it
to execute a shell command, which spawns a child process to execute
the command.

These two things are not the same.

## Fork and exec

`fork` and `exec` are used to spawn child processes:

* `fork` creates a child process that is identical to the parent,
except for the pid.

* `exec` loads a new program and starts executing it.

Why do we care:

* Ultimately, this is how all processes are created.  It's the theory
of universal descent for processes.

* It's how shells work.  You could write one in 10s of lines.

* For applications, spawning concurrent processes is an alternative
to spawning concurrent threads.

There are a few use cases for using `fork` and `exec` separately, but the
most common use case, spawning a child process, uses both.

1) In this directory, read fork.c, then compile and run with different
numbers of child processes:

```
    gcc -Wall -o fork fork.c
    
    ./fork 1
    
    ./fork 2
    
    ./fork 3
```

Draw a thread diagram that shows the execution of this program with 3 child
processes.

       parent
        |
        |
        |       (pid=0)
       fork-----child0-----sleep(0)----"hello from child 0" --- exit
     (pid=child0) 
        |          
        |       (pid=0)
       fork-----child1-----sleep(1)----"hello from child 1" --- exit
     (pid=child1) 
        |
        |       (pid=0)
       fork-----child2-----sleep(2)----"hello from child 2" --- exit
     (pid=child2)   
        |
        |
    "Hello From
      Parent"
        |
      wait(child0, child1, child2)
        |
    print elapsed time


1) Add code to this example to check whether the parent
and child processes share the same global, heap, and stack segments.
Add a comment that presents and explains the results.

See if you can figure out a way to check whether the child
processes share the same code and static segments.

The parent and child processes do not share the same global, heap, and stack segments.
Each process has its own virtual memory address space.

Creating child 0.
Creating child 1.
Creating child 2.
Hello from the parent.
Hello from child 0.
g=0, h=0, s=0 in child 0
Child 43479 exited with error code 0.
Hello from child 1.
g=1, h=1, s=1 in child 1
Child 43480 exited with error code 1.
Hello from child 2.
g=2, h=2, s=2 in child 2
Child 43481 exited with error code 2.
Elapsed time = 2.002693 seconds.
g=0, h=0, s=0 in parent
*(g,h,s never got modified on the parents process!)*

3) Check `fork.c` in to the repo.


## Newshound

In this directory, you'll find `newshound.c`, which contains the code from
page 418 of *Head First C*, with a few style changes.

1) Read the code to make sure you understand it, then compile and run it.

```
    gcc newshound.c
    ./a.out ""
```

As the book says, it only prints articles from the first RSS feed, not the
others.  Why?



2) Add code to fork one process for each feed, so you have five instances
of `rssgossip.py` runnning concurrently.  Confirm that the program now gets
articles from all five feeds.

3) Add code so that the parent thread waits for the child processes to complete,
checks for errors, and then exits.

4) Check in your modified version of `newshound.c`.
