# Exercise 2

### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

Result:
Address of main is 0x104cf7e60
Address of var1 is 0x104cf8020
Address of var2 is 0x7ffeeaf08a48
p points to 0x7f90ac402730
s points to 0x104cf7f40

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

So it dynamically allocates memory in heap of the given type and of the given size in bytes.

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.
-------------
(stack)
var1
*s
main
-------------
(heap)
*p
-------------
(globals)
var2
-------------
(constants)
-------------
(code)

4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses). 
Result: 
Address of main is 0x104763e30
Address of var1 is 0x104764020
Address of var2 is 0x7ffeeb49ca48
p points to 0x7fef96402730
q points to 0x7fef964027b0
s points to 0x104763f34

so the heap grew up by (11 - 3) * 16 = 128 bytes, which is expected!

5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.  
Address of main is 0x10c986dd0
Address of printLocal is 0x10c986da0
(so the stack grows down)
Address of var1 is 0x10c987020
Address of var2 is 0x7ffee3279a48
p points to 0x7fb647402730
q points to 0x7fb6474027b0
s points to 0x10c986f13
Address of local variable a is 0x7ffee32799fc

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.  
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.
I allocated 1 byte each,
m points to 0x7f94eec02830
n points to 0x7f94eec02840

### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

It will print out 42 five times.

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

warning: address of stack memory associated with local variable 'array' returned
      [-Wreturn-stack-address]
    return array;

It means that an adress of local variable is being returned (which is not allowed because the local variable 
array will be soon gone! What is the address going to point at then??)

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.
0x7ffee0e57a00
0x7ffee0e57a00
0
446543434
0
0
0
It surprisingly ran without an error, but of course did not behave as we intended to do
because array is gone after we call foo().

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

0
-1814367428
0
0
0

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Adder

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use their functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
